>> This was one of my favorite
interviews of the year.
Many of us know that
something is terribly
wrong with the unnatural
way in which we're
living on the Earth.
We've created an artificial
environment for life
in virtually every
way, including--
and especially--
our food supplies.
The deepening crisis
of manufactured food
and its effect on the
human body and mind
is evidenced everywhere.
Leonid Sharashkin is a
lifelong gardener from Russia
that is also the publisher
of the English edition
of "The Ringing
Cedars" series of books
about the wisdom of a Siberian
woman named Anastasia.
The stories are profound
and have left everybody
wondering who Anastasia is.
I first became aware of the
work that you represent--
and I have to clarify
that a little later on.
You represent a lot of things,
but "The Ringing Cedars" series
from a girlfriend
that said, have
you read "The Ringing
Cedars" series
yet and heard about the words,
the wisdom of Anastasia?
And I had to admit I hadn't.
So when I came to
the conference,
I was thrilled to
see that you were
here and that series of books
and got an immediate rush when
I saw the cover of the books.
They're very childlike
and playful and whimsical.
So let's talk about what
the Anastasia series,
"The Ringing Cedar"
series of books
is all about, because
this is just fascinating.
>> It would be very hard to say
what it is about because it is
basically about everything.
But it tells the story of a
Russian entrepreneur named
Vladimir Megre who,
in 1994 and 1995,
was undertaking trading
expeditions in Siberia
and was going to
very remote places,
trading with local people.
And on one of the streets, he
heard fascinating local legends
about ringing cedar
trees, the trees
that accumulate so much energy
that they start vibrating.
And a piece of this cedar
wood worn on one's body
could improve health and
even make a person happier.
He disregarded these legends
and dismissed them as fantasy.
But when he came
back from that trip,
he started researching on the
properties of the Siberian
cedar and realized
that these trees got
huge commercial potential, that
produce the Siberian pine nuts
and the everything of this
tree-- the root, the needles,
the bark have great
medicinal properties
that are known in this area
for thousands of years,
even before Europeans
and Russians arrived.
So being a keen
entrepreneur that he is,
he decided to set up
another expedition
and go back to this area and
to find this ringing cedar
tree to see how he could cash
in on commercializing it.
>> So it was totally about
money for him at this point?
>> Well, I have an impression
that it's still the same case.
>> But let me ask a quick
question right here.
He says in the
first book that he
encounters these two old men--
>> Yes.
>> That give him
this information.
Did that part even happen, that
he encountered two old men?
Is that who told him about
the lore or how did that go?
How did he find out?
>> Well, I don't pretend to know
much more than what is written
in the books.
Vladimir Megre himself maintains
that this is a real life story
and a documentary account.
What we know for sure is that
he was a well-known entrepreneur
in this part of Siberia, that
during these two years, he did
take these expeditions up and
down the Siberian river, Ob.
But whether he, during
this trip, met somebody
or whether there were
some other kind of source
for this information and
for this inspiration,
it's up to the reader to judge.
This is why in the
first book it says--
the main character,
Anastasia, says--
I exist for those
for whom I exist,
and these books are fascinating
in that they can be read either
as a factual documentary
account or a novel,
but they're neither.
This question becomes
even irrelevant
when you consider the
messages that these books are
trying to convey.
>> That's really true.
First of all, what
does Anastasia mean?
>> Anastasia in Greek
means Resurrection.
But actually the root,
anasta, comes from Sanskrit.
And not many people know
that Sanskrit and Russian are
very closely related languages.
Up to the present day, they
have some common roots.
And anasta in Sanskrit
means incorruptible,
something that is so pure
that it cannot be soiled.
So basically the
word Anastasia is
a symbol of purity and light.
>> Very interesting.
Now the point you make
is quite interesting.
Whether Vladimir has
actually documented something
or whether he has come
about this information
through other extraordinary
means is really not relevant
when you're reading this
information in one sense,
is it?
>> What I can tell from
personally knowing the author,
that he doesn't give an
impression of an individual who
could invent the story.
He describes himself very
honestly in the books
and we need to give
him credit for that.
He smokes.
He enjoys a drink or--
>> Likes women.
>> He's not indifferent
towards women.
So he is just a
normal entrepreneur
who enjoys life and tries
to get everything out of it.
>> Interesting.
So the second time
he goes back, he's
going to really squeeze
it for all he can.
He's going to get the nuts.
He's going to get
the wood, the oil.
And then what happens?
>> According to his account,
he meets the granddaughter
of the elders to whom he
had talked the year before.
And this woman named
Anastasia wants
him to spend three days
with her in the depth
of the wild forest.
He accepts the
invitation because he
is keen to see this
ringing cedar tree
and to see how it could be cut
down, transported to the city,
and then sawed into
small pieces and sold.
But his experiences during
these three days with Anastasia
change his world
view so dramatically,
because she exhibits knowledge
and feelings and wisdom so
unfamiliar to our
modern civilization
that he, at her request,
drops everything, abandons
his business,
abandons his family,
and leaves from
Siberia to Moscow
to write a series of books
about his experiences with her.
>> Well, all I can say
is, whatever happened,
I'm glad he did it.
So let's talk about what
happened those first three days
a little bit--
from the first book
called "Anastasia," just
to kind of set the
framework for the types
of wisdoms that are revealed
in a series of eight books.
Well, now there will
be nine, you say?
There's another
new one coming out?
>> It's considered the second
part of the book eight,
but it's the ninth volume.
>> So what happened to
him during these days,
these three days?
>> Well, here he is, this
entrepreneur with his very
materialistic mindset in the
company of a younger, blonde,
attractive woman who lives
there in the depth of the taiga
without any modern amenities.
When he arrived to
her home, he couldn't
see any kind of man-made shelter
and she was not even allowing
him to light the fire.
>> Let's talk about the
word taiga for a moment,
because I think a lot of people
outside of Russia don't know
what that means.
>> Taiga is the northern forest.
Basically it's a
conifer forest-- fir
trees and pine trees
and large trees,
which is predominant
throughout most of the Siberia
and in parts of northern Canada.
>> So he's now out in
the conifers with her,
out in the forest at her home
place and he can't see a home
or anything else
for that matter.
>> Yeah.
And she even thinks
that this is where
she lives and this is where
she had lived all her life.
And he gets a shock
and even wants
to run back to the
bank of the river
to be picked up
by his steamboat.
But her-- the sheer abnormality
of the whole situation
makes him stay because he is
keen to discover this tree
and to learn more.
And he witnesses the amazing
harmonious interaction
that Anastasia enjoys with
plants and animals on the way
that she lives.
Squirrels bring her
food to eat and she
is not concerned about providing
for her food or for her shelter
and sleeps in one of
the dugouts that are
prepared for her by the bear.
>> And sometimes with bears.
>> Yeah.
This was his first experience.
To keep him warm,
she invited him
to sleep in the same
dugout with the bear
and he thought it
was just the pelt,
but it turned out that
it was a living creature.
And you know, it may
sound too far out.
But people who are
familiar with this region,
they will tell you that many
local people can communicate
with the local
wildlife, with bears,
and there is no fantastic in
his account up to this point.
>> And it's true even in even
in the Western world through
the Disney-type of renditions
of this and movies of Snow White
and Sleeping Beauty, where
they go into the forest,
the one common denominator is
that the young woman is always
able to live in harmony with and
communicate with the animals,
which growing up, I thought that
was the most beautiful thing
imaginable.
So it must be some
recognition inside of us
that is drawn to that.
Our own human capability
to be able to do this
has to be innate to us.
>> Exactly, because this is
the image of the Paradise Lost.
>> That's right.
>> And he starts to
discourage her lifestyle,
which is shocking to him,
but she very patiently tried
to explain to him in the very
simple terms that he would be
able to relate to how nature
of her lifestyle was and how
in nature our civilization is
compared to the way she and her
ancestors had always lived
in this part of Siberia.
>> Yeah.
Go ahead.
I was going to say--
>> So even when he says,
how do you keep warm?
The temperature is in the
40s and I wear a jacket
and you wear virtually nothing
and doesn't seem to be cold,
but she explained to him, well,
there are people in our society
who can be tolerant
of the cold and cited
an example of a famous proponent
of health through closeness
to nature native to
Russia, [INAUDIBLE],,
who was so tolerant to
cold he could work only
in pants during Siberian winters
without any harm to his body.
So you know, just the whole
thing about his experience
is that what he initially
perceived as supernatural,
something that was not--
that was beyond the
limits of man's capability
all of a sudden seemed
very natural to him
and he started to question
our own lifestyle instead.
>> Yes.
And she goes on to talk about--
well, introduces many subjects
in the beginning, not the least
of which is how one
absorbs and accesses
knowledge, which is fascinating.
But one of the areas that
you're deeply involved
in in your personal life, and
I'm very interested in right
now for all of our
sakes, is the notion
of how we relate
to the plant world,
to agriculture,
growing our own food,
and even how to condition
the seeds so that they
are able to relate to your
body personally and sustain
your health.
Can you go into that a bit?
>> Yes.
You're right that you say
that it is all-encompassing.
It goes over so many subjects.
In this very first
book, you're exposed
to ideas that range from
gardening to child-rearing,
from relationships
and sexuality,
to religion and the
meaning of human life.
But the two main
subjects that she herself
enjoyed talking most about was
child-rearing and gardening,
because she believed
that on these two,
the future of our
civilization depended.
And to Vladimir Megre
it was incomprehensible,
because how can future
of our civilization
depend on such meaningless
things as gardening?
But she explained to him
that the food gardening,
when you grow your
own food, it allows
you to establish a flow of
nourishment, information,
and energy from you to the
plant world and back to you.
And she exposed him to the
idea that actually plants
are custom made to suit
the needs of your body.
>> To heal us personally.
>> To heal you personally.
And actually this is something
we can observe in nature.
It's rare to find a sickly
animal in the woods, right?
And it's much more common to
find the sickly looking human
when you walk into the
streets of a large city.
Why might that be?
She explained to him
that in nature, there
are inbuilt mechanisms
to keep all organisms
and the whole ecosystem healthy.
And one of these
mechanisms is the flow
of information and nourishment
from one organism to the other.
Here's an example.
Let's say in a particular
area of the Earth,
there is a warm,
prolonged winter.
And the nature
starts understanding
that the summer is likely to
be very hot, very dry, and very
long.
What that creates
in the ecosystem
that plants and other organisms
have natural mechanisms
to adjust their bodies
and adjust their fruit
to match these particular
weather conditions
during this particular year.
And everybody knows
that a vegetable
that you grow in your
backyard will be different
depending on the amount
of warmth and sunshine
and the water that you get
in a particular season.
So it's just natural
and common knowledge.
But she explains that,
well, in your civilization,
you are disconnected from the
source of your nourishment.
And you may live in
the cold climates
but consume fruits,
vegetables, and other food that
comes from a hot climate
where this food was grown
by nature to satisfy
the needs of bodies
in that particular client.
And there's disconnect
in both time
because we can
eat out the season
and we have all the food
fruit and all the vegetables
and all the foods
year round today,
and in space, because
we can have food
from all over the world.
So it prevents you from tapping
into this natural mechanism
of self-sustaining health.
Here's how it works.
If you provide plants with the
information about your body
by applying some small amount
of matter from your body--
for example, sweat.
If you wash your feet and
then water your garden mass
with this water,
then you provide
the plants that grow
there with information
on your bodily needs.
And the plants
have an opportunity
to modify the chemical
composition of the fruit that
grow to match the
needs of your body.
So in a very direct sense,
food, if you grow it yourself,
can be custom made for you.
And she recommended amazing
simple gardening techniques
when, even in our civilized
world, even in your backyard
or if you have none, even on the
window sill of your apartment,
you can plant seeds that
would eventually grow food
to heal your body and spirit.
>> It's really amazing that
she's bringing up the notion
of this incredible symbiotic
relationship between the--
like as a collective agreement
between the plant world
and the animal world for
this purpose of healing.
And I found that
first of all, as I
was reading this
book, everything
felt correct intuitively for me.
>> I was able to verify
this by scientific sources.
>> Oh, good.
That's what I wanted to know.
How has this been done?
And we'll talk about some of
the methods in a little bit.
What have you found out?
>> Well, there are a number
of Russian scientists who were
researching--
one of them, Mikhail Prokhorov,
referred to in the books
as well, was researching
the role of bacteria
to human adaptation.
And he discovered that while
our body, in particular
our intestine, is inhabited by
a whole range of bacteria who--
excuse me-- when we defecate,
get into the environment.
But this is a natural means
to convey the information
about our state of
being to the environment
so that the bacteria in the
soil can receive information.
And there is another
scientist who
studied the bio-communication
and the information exchanged
between bacteria and
who showed that there
is the transfer of
information from bacteria,
even though different varieties.
So if the waste
flow of your bodily
matter into the
soil of your garden,
then the bacteria who are
responsible for nourishing
the plants and making
nutrients in the soil
available to the plants, they
will get this information
from the bacteria
coming from your body.
Why is it important?
For a simple reason that
the lifespan of a bacteria
is between 15 and
40 minutes compared
to 50 to 80 years for man.
What it means, that bacteria
can adapt much more rapidly
to the changes in weather
and in the environment
that we humans can.
And that there's a natural
mechanism provided to us so
that we can stay healthy without
any special effort on our part.
So no matter how unusual some
of the information in Megre's
books are viewed at
first glance, when
I started looking up scientific
literature, most of it
was vindicated.
>> That's very interesting.
Now let's talk about the
seed process she talks about.
If you really want
to imbue the seeds--
>> The seeds with
information about yourself.
>> And the steps you
would go through.
>> So the first step is to
put the seed for nine minutes
into your mouth under your
tongue to let the saliva
permeate it.
What it does-- saliva has
as a different pH from water
so it already activates the
germination of the seed.
Then saliva is very
rich with bacteria
again, which carry
information about our body
because everybody's bacteria
will be different depending
on the state of your health.
Then temperature.
You have high temperature, which
also stimulates germination.
So she describes this
as a means of imbuing
the seed with information
about your body's state.
So you hold it in the
mouth for nine minutes,
then you take it out, put it in
between the palms of your hands
and keep it there
for half a minute.
>> Lots of energy
transferred there.
>> Exactly.
And now today we
can, and science can,
measure biological energy
fields of human beings
and we all know that
vast flows of energy
flow through our
hands in particular.
Then present it to the sun.
And again, you know even from
the biological standpoint,
it makes perfect sense because
it's an additional kind
of stimulation.
And she also, like
Rudolf Steiner
that founder of
biodynamic agriculture
that was so successful
over the years.
She explains that
it's also a way
to initiate the contact of the
seed with the celestial bodies.
Then breath on the
seeds, it's symbolic.
>> You just do one breath or--
>> Breath on the seed to
convey additional information.
And then plant it
on a spot where,
during the whole process, you
have been standing barefoot.
And this is also significant
because through the sweats
and sweating of our feet, a
lot of toxins and bacteria
will leave and these
toxins come out.
So it's additional information
to the seeded plant
about your bodily needs.
And then do not want water
this seed for three days so
that it can absorb
your information rather
than this information being
diluted by water you pour over.
And there regularly should
commence every evening,
wash your feet without any
soap and pour the water
on your garden baths.
And this is basically
everything she suggests.
>> And now you have been
gardening for 25 years.
And we're going to
get into some of this,
because you're really part
of that Russian tradition.
And have you used some of
these techniques yourself?
>> Yes, I have.
>> And what have you found
in terms of the effects
of the food or the
qualities of the food.
>> Not only myself,
but many, many people,
and the publisher of these books
in English, [INAUDIBLE] press,
keep receiving accounts
of people who apply this
technique.
So it's not just my experience.
People report that food
becomes better tasting.
And again, you know, it's not
abstractly better tasting.
What we hear is that
it is better tasting
for this particular individual.
But this is what matters.
Different people will
have different tastes.
Somebody with one body
needs will enjoy sour apple
and the other will need
and enjoy sweet apple.
And this is what seems to be
achieved by this technique
and by maintaining this flow
of nourishment and information
between you and your garden.
So what also many
people discard is
that the plants become
drought tolerant, more drought
tolerant.
One of the women
from Europe wrote
to say that all neighbor's
gardens were dry,
and even though she
was not watering hers,
it was doing just fine.
>> During a drought?
>> Yeah.
During the drought.
So again, it's very hard to
measure the impact it has.
But if anything, it creates
the psychological link as well,
because it's not only about
the physical connection
to the plant world.
Again, both this series of
books and scientific evidence
shows that there is this
psychological link that
is absolutely essential
for our well-being.
For example, there have been
scientifically valid controlled
studies where they've been
able to show that just looking
at green plants reduces
the blood pressure,
that patients who have
windows overlooking a garden
recover faster from
surgery than patients
who are deprived of this view.
So you know, we come to the
same ancient understanding that
was prevalent in all cultures of
the world even 2,000 years ago,
that we are part of nature, not
just in some abstract sense,
that we are really
embedded into it.
And the only way to live a
healthy and fulfilling life
is understanding all these
natural mechanisms that
were provided for our benefit.
>> It makes total sense.
And the amount of chronic
disease in the Western world,
in all the parts of the
world in which people
are no longer connected to
the earth, speaks to that.
I mean, you need to look any
further than in the winter,
in particular all the people
with runny noses and coughs
and one sort of
ailment after another.
And a lot of the
people that live
close to the land in
Russia, where you're
talking about some
pretty harsh climates,
you don't have the
same degree of illness
with people who are doing
their own gardening, do you?
>> No, you do not see.
And they're actually--
Russia is such a
unique country where
70% of the population
today, and this
is 35 million families,
both rich and poor,
both urban and rural, grow their
own food in their food gardens.
And now we're talking about a
completely different attitude
towards your environment
and a complete different
understanding of the
meaning of the food
and where it is coming from.
If anything, it
is also providing
an extremely
important safety net
in times of economic hardship.
Think about our Western
society in the United
States and elsewhere.
We all depend on money
and monetary income
to purchase the necessities, the
first necessity of life-- food.
And what if there is
an economic crisis?
Then many people's livelihoods
will be jeopardized.
But Russians, for the
most part, are really
shielded from all
the economic calamity
just because they do not
depend on the market cash
economy for their staples
that they grow themselves.
>> And I listened to you
give a talk yesterday,
and I have it here
somewhere on my paper,
but something like 50% of
all of the produce raised--
>> Even more.
>> In Russia is from
backyard gardens.
>> People's gardens today
produce more food in all
of the Russian federation,
more food than all commercial
agriculture put together.
So gardens now produce 54%
and commercial agriculture
produce the rest, 46%.
Also to produce this 54%
food, gardeners only 7%
of the agricultural
land of the country.
So compared the efficiency.
On 7%, you produce
more than half,
and the remaining 93% barely
produces another half.
>> Which is interesting, because
if you look at biodynamic
gardening and Rudolf Steiner's
anthroposophical methods
of gardening, you're talking
about really high yields
in small spaces because it's
done with such integrity.
>> And it has always
been the case.
My research has shown that
even 100 years ago, researchers
already attempts to
the people's gardens
were four times more productive
than agricultural fields.
And there is an
explanation to it.
When you have a smaller sized
garden that you can attend--
so every day that you can
take better care than you can
of a huge field,
it's just natural
that the productivity
of these gardens
will be much, much
greater than that
of a large commercial
industrial operations.
And also think about
the other dimension.
When you dig your own garden
with a spade and simple hand
tools, you don't require
imports of petroleum
to support your food growing.
You're not dependent
on government subsidies
to grow your own food.
You're not dependent on the
cheap hired agricultural labor.
You're not dependent on--
>> Hopefully chemicals.
>> Chemicals, because it can
be grown organically very
successfully.
You're not destroying
local communities, which
has been a huge problem
with American agriculture,
is that when large
corporations come,
local or rural
communities collapse.
And then you preserve
the tradition.
An economist with very
deep understanding
of the meaning of agriculture,
EF Schumacher, author
of the famous "Small
is Beautiful,"
he was saying that agriculture
has three purposes.
The first purpose is to
reconnect man to nature
through every day activity
of gardening or agriculture.
The second one is to make
a piece of land beautiful.
And only the third one
is provide for our needs.
And he says that if you
take care of the first two--
reconnecting
yourself with nature
and making land beautiful--
then the third one
will be just the byproduct.
It will be added all by itself.
And Russian gardeners
demonstrate that, in fact,
if you try to make your garden
as beautiful and as productive
and spend a lot of time
there, there are never
problems with productivity.
>> And in Russia, you have very
short growing seasons compared
to what most of the
United States has.
>> And that is the
most amazing part.
You would think that if this
garden was so productive there
in a very good climate
and very fertile soil.
Just the opposite.
It's 110 days of
growing season per year
on most of Russian territory
from mid-May to mid-September.
That's it.
So this is the
only time you have
to grow food supply for the
whole year and then to can
and preserve it for the winter.
Then in terms of soils,
all these gardens
during the Soviet
period were allocated
on the most marginal
lands that could not be
used in state run agriculture.
>> Is that the dacha?
>> That is dacha gardens,
as they are called.
So we are talking about
this huge productivity
on unproductive poor soils
in very harsh climate.
Also there is a great difference
in mentality and attitudes.
Russian adults who have
a garden on the average
spend 18 hours per week
gardening, digging the soil.
Compare this to 32 hours that
an average American spends
watching television each week.
You know, just if in this
country people started
devoting one-third of their time
that they spend on watching TV
to growing their own food,
they could provide for most
of their food needs themselves.
>> That's really amazing.
But it really comes back
to the word culture.
And which is interesting--
the root of the word culture
is interesting.
If you'll explain that.
But also that culture is
still very deep in the heart
of Russian society.
>> I would argue it is in
the heart of everybody,
because the word cult--
do not to be afraid of the word.
In latent language, it literally
means, take care of the soil.
This is why the word
cultivation is there.
So originally the
word agriculture,
and culture as well,
were understood
as taking care of the soil.
And it's not by
accident that this word
has a deeper religious meaning.
It is that our ancestors
understood exactly
that the best way to
demonstrate your spirituality
and the closest link to the
spirit, the Creator, God
or whatever other
name you may find
for this or life force
that permeates everything,
is to communicate and take
care of all these living things
that surround you.
And it is only later that
instead of cultivation
of the soil, the
word cult started
to be understood as some
kind of religious ritual
that can be far, far removed
from the reality of a living
Mother Earth.
And it is only later that
the word culture started
to be understood not as
taking care of the soil,
but as taking care of our mind
or elevating and nourishing
our minds rather than the soil.
So now even in the
language we use today,
there are still the remnants
of this very ancient tradition
that was common not only
to Americans and Russians.
It was probably all over
the world, understanding
of the sacredness of this link
and the absolute necessity
to maintain this link for
the health not only of us,
but also the
environment around us.
>> And so now we're looking at
future generations because it
becomes clear to me--
I interview a lot of
people, as you know,
and I know a lot of
different theories
and we talk about
new technologies
and future technologies
and so forth.
But it's becoming
painfully clear
that until we reconnect with the
land and our natural essence,
the rest isn't really going
to make a lot of difference
in the long run for what we
pass down from generation
to generation.
>> And you are right.
This intergenerational
principle is so important.
Part of the reason why
land is being abused today
is that people seriously think
that their life is limited
to the life of their bodies.
In the ancient
Russian tradition,
which survives in many respects
unchanged to the present day,
life was understood as
the life of your family.
And your existence
was understood
as just one link in a very long
chain of all your ancestors.
It's called the ken.
In Russian, it is rod.
R-O-D. So it's the long chain
of all your ancestors to date,
yourself, and all your
descendants in the future.
And this is what was
understood as the link of life.
For this reason, our
ancestors had no fear of death
and they would never
sacrifice the integrity
of the natural
ecosystem around them
for satisfying their
present day needs
at the sake of their
future descendants
because they were seeing them
as a part of their own life.
So there was not
this distinction
that I only live today and
I only have 50 or 80 years
to take advantage of
what life has to offer
and then I will
be gone for good.
I think it is very important
to transcend this world view
if we want to change our
attitudes towards the way we
treat our Earth.
>> Absolutely.
And you've raised--
you have children.
And you've raised
them on the land.
And you told a little
story that I thought
was so fascinating yesterday.
I loved it.
It's very sweet, because
you're raising them
with a lot of these principles
that you understand,
which in Anastasia's words, a
very different way of rearing
children than what
we do in the West--
much more innate wisdom in it.
And--
[CLEARS THROAT]
Excuse me-- you shared a story
about a United States Post
Office sponsored hunger drive.
Can you tell that story?
>> It was a fun story.
About a year ago,
US postal office
organized an
anti-hunger food drive.
And I received in my mailbox,
and probably many more people
did throughout the country,
a postcard inviting everybody
to go to the supermarket to
purchase some canned food
and put it into your mailbox.
The mail carrier would
collect them the next day
and take it to the
local food bank
to be distributed to
the hungry to feed them.
And I took out this post card
and it was bright and beautiful
with smiling people and
some canned food on it.
And my daughter
asked me, daddy--
>> She's five years old, right?
>> She was five years
old at that time.
Daddy, what is this?
I say, well, they want
to feed the hungry people
so that there are
no hungry people.
She said, what a
wonderful idea, is it not?
I said, yes, it is.
And she said, so
what do they suggest?
I explained to her
that they suggest
that you go and purchase some
food and put it in the mailbox
and it will be
delivered to the poor.
And now this child who grew
up with exposure to gardening
and who has a very good
understanding where
food is actually coming
from thought for 30 seconds
without any interference
on my part--
I was not trying to introduce
any judgment for my own--
she herself after 30
minutes came up with--
>> 30 seconds.
>> 30 seconds-- came
up with the question,
but what will happen after they
eat all the food that you put
into your mailbox?
They will be hungry again.
And she thought
a little bit more
and said, but in
the first place,
why are there hungry people?
Don't they know that they
can take a small seed,
put it in the ground and
it will grow food for you?
You know, for a small child,
it was incomprehensible
that people would try to
solve the problem of hunger
not by educating people
how to grow their own food,
but trying to provide them with
some supplies that will only
be sufficient to provide for
several days of their food
needs.
And then she told
me, you know, daddy,
when you go to this
conference, I really
think that you need to tell the
audience that they should not
be putting the canned
food in their mailboxes
because next time they will have
to put medicine so that people
can heal the diseases that they
get from eating this canned
food.
[LAUGHTER]
And this is a child
of five years.
>> I love that.
From the mouths of
babes, but she already
has that innate wisdom.
And part of that is because
you have the innate wisdom.
You and your wife have
imbued this to your children.
And you really-- gardening
and having their hands
in the soil with
seeds and flowers
is a big part of the
transferring of this knowledge.
And this relates to
much higher abilities
in terms of our openness
of mind and ability
to receive knowledge
across the board--
not just agrarian knowledge,
but knowledge across the board.
In the Anastasia series--
>> Exactly.
And Anastasia explains
it in very simple terms.
She says, all the
objects in our world
can be regarded in
a very direct sense
as matter realized thought.
So just think about it.
When a child plays
with a living creature,
be it a squirrel or even a pet,
or when the child interacts
with a living plant, he
is interacting directly
with the thought of the Creator.
And this encourages
the child to really
reach out and try to
expand the thought
and to reach the
level of whoever
created this natural object
in front of the child.
Compare this with the child
in the civilized world who
is mostly surrounded by
artificial toys which
are the product of the thought
of some designer who is not
nearly as perfect as
the power, the one who
created the squirrel
or a bird or a pumpkin.
So this is the way she explains
just why exposing children
to natural experiences is
so important for expanding
their understanding or awakening
their innate knowledge of how
the world works.
And as you say, it
applies not only
to understanding of gardening,
but to all areas of life
as well.
My daughter keeps telling her
grandparents over the phone
how they should live
and how they should not
live in the cities because
when they flush their toilet,
the turds flow into
their river and make fish
unhappy over the dirty water.
>> She's already an ecologist.
She understands complex
systems for a little girl.
It's beautiful.
Well, I mean, we
could talk for days.
But what I would rather do is
suggest that people go online
and pick up a copy, the
whole series of these books,
because it's a magical read.
And the wisdoms that
are contained within I
think are absolutely
essential in helping us
shape our future as a species.
I don't have enough
praise for this.
>> Thank you.
And you know, the
experience of the publisher
was that 60% of people who
read the book one, "Anastasia,"
which is book one of "The
Ringing Cedars" series.
60% of these people carry
on to read the whole series.
So that means that really
the material in these books
resonates very, very strongly
with people in this country
and all over the
English-speaking world.
>> It does.
And also you, for the
next little while anyway,
are going to be giving talks
and showing up at conferences
around to begin
sharing this knowledge
to get people on this--
>> Yeah, you know, I long about
going back to my homestead
in Russia because I have a small
five acre homestead and want
to be back there
planting the garden,
but somebody told me here, Leo,
it's wonderful that you are
happy planting potatoes, but you
need to be telling other people
how to be happy
planting potatoes.
>> I agree.
I agree.
And you did a beautiful
job yesterday.
This has been the highlight
of the conference for me.
And thank you so much
for taking a little time,
because I know you have to
catch a plane very shortly.
Thank you.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thank you, Leo.
I can't recommend highly enough
that you pick up "The Ringing
Cedars" series of books.
They address just
about every issue
known to man-- from love,
childbearing, intuitive
intelligence, the invisible
power structures that
control us, to ETs and more.
They're a wonderful journey.
Until next time, thanks
for watching CMN.